# Lifeboat Theory - Seed Document
Main repository for Lifeboat Theory

“Here’s how this works: our ship goes down. We’re all in a life boat, and we’ve got 11 people on it. Who’s the first one you throw overboard? Who’s the second? Who’s the third?” Robert F. Smith - Vista Equity Partners

As traditional 9-5 knowledge worker employment becomes evermore perilous to navigate, and also evermore divorced from the qualities that define the digital age, an alternative system is offered here. If we imagine traditional corporations as large ships, then imagine that as that ship becomes more hostile and difficult to live and work on, the inhabitants (employees) will abandon ship and set off in an available lifeboat. What would this lifeboat look like, however? How will it navigate and sustain the lives that have sought refuge on it? These are questions with an infinite number of potential answers. Lifeboat Theory, as described here, is one framework for providing those answers.

## Lifeboat Origins
Regardless of how one feels about corporations politically (or otherwise), the fact of the matter is that major flaws of corporations in the digital age are that they are hulking, slow-moving and have kludgy interfaces. Joining a corporation as an employee is a major life decision that requires a significant amount of time and effort. Once you are hired, however, your employment is under constant threat from decisions far from your purview many layers above within and even outside the corporation, and completely outside of your control. You will almost certainly be joining a 'department' of sorts, which can be reorganized or completely terminated at any time. Additionally, much of how a corporation is structured today is remnant of archaic practices from Industrial Age factories.

## Mapping out the Traditional Corporation Replacement
How can this situation with traditional corporations be remedied? In simple terms: change the medium of work and eliminate the hulking, slow-moving, kludgy object known as a corporation. In order to do this, the size of the object we are dealing with needs to be drastically downsized. So why not downsize to the smallest viable size possible? Jeff Bezos popularized the idea of having 'two-pizza teams', which is the concept that a team within a corporation (specifically Amazon), should be no larger than a team that can consume 2 pizzas maximum. Why not have a two-pizza organization itself? Now just replace 'two-pizza' with small lifeboat. We now have the sketch of the first invariant for our organization: very small size.

What about time demands? Traditional full-time employment demands a full 40 hours a week minimum. That's an extremely large amount of time for someone to devote to a single organization, which roughly translates to 2000 hours a year. Let's borrow here from Tim Ferris and chop that down to 4 hours a week. We now have our second invariant: workers on the lifeboat work a maximum of 4 hours a week.

What about governance? Surely, a lifeboat without some kind of governance is just chaotic and doomed to catastrophe. Let's assign a Benevolent Dictator. Their job is to govern the lifeboat, and make the final decisions. However, they are not just manager types coming down with edicts from the clouds. They have to row the lifeboat just like everybody else. How much they get rewarded for taking on additional responsibilites is a negotiation with the rest of the lifeboat crew. Additionally, each crewmember on their lifeboat is only devoting 4 hours a week to the lifeboat, making it much easier for them to terminate their relationship with the lifeboat and the Benevolent Dictator, depending on the circumstances. In general, individuals can be on multiple lifeboats throughout a given week. If their relationship is terminated with one lifeboat, they still have others they are on.

How do people actually work while on the lifeboat? No more silos or people being assigned tasks to be done individually. All decisions are made in the open with all crewmates and all working sessions are recorded so they can be reviewed later. To achieve this, we borrow from the technique of Mob Programming: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Team_programming. 

## Summary of the Format
* 1-7 people (although realistically, more like 2-7 people. A lifeboat of 1 would just be a 'solopreneur' of sorts)
* 4 hours per week
* 'Mob' style working

## Format Concepts
The invariants of the format might seem bizarre and restrictive but they serve a purporse. If the lifeboat working sessions are restricted to 4 hours per week, this means that to earn significant money, the decisions and actions of the crew must be high-leverage. A lifeboat starting off probably won't have such high leverage, but will have to work up to it. The short working time window discourages possibilities of 'side hustle' type activities that are not leveraged and have fixed payouts per task. Ideally, a lifeboat should construct money-making systems that are passive and highly leveraged (a few number of actions have a large impact and earn significant sums of money).

The small size of the lifeboat is important as well. It insures maximum agility in the face of changing market conditions. The total number of relationships that can form with 7 people is 21, making the lifeboat organization as a whole extremely agile as compared to a large organization.

The 'Mob' style working does multiple things. First, it forces people to learn how to perform tasks quickly and efficiently. With a number of eyes watching you, you tend to want to perform better (use keyboard shortcuts, be very organized etc.). Second, 'mob' style working is more social. Humans are social animals after all and when someone is given a task to go off to do on their own, that diminishes the social aspect of work. Third, everyone can watch every single action and learn from each other. No actions are done 'behind the scenes' and hopefully, things that happen after hours are kept to a minimum.
